Abdominal aortic aneurysm		http://www.mayoclinic.com/health/abdominal-aortic-aneurysm/DS01194	Definition::An abdominal aortic aneurysm is an enlarged area in the lower part of the aorta, the major blood vessel that supplies blood to the body. The aorta, about the thickness of a garden hose, runs from your heart through the center of your chest and abdomen. Because the aorta is the body's main supplier of blood, a ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm can cause life-threatening bleeding.||||Depending on the size and rate at which your abdominal aortic aneurysm is growing, treatment may vary from watchful waiting to emergency surgery. Once an abdominal aortic aneurysm is found, doctors will closely monitor it so that surgery can be planned if it's necessary. Emergency surgery for a ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm can be risky.	Symptoms::Abdominal aortic aneurysms often grow slowly and usually without symptoms, making them difficult to detect. Some aneurysms will never rupture. Many start small and stay small, although many expand over time. Others expand quickly. Predicting how fast an abdominal aortic aneurysm may enlarge is difficult.||||As an abdominal aortic aneurysm enlarges, some people may notice:||A pulsating feeling near the navelDeep, constant pain in your abdomen or on the side of your abdomenBack pain||When to see a doctorYou should see your doctor if you have any of the symptoms listed above.||||Anyone age 60 and older who has risk factors for developing an abdominal aortic aneurysm, such as smoking or a family history of abdominal aortic aneurysm, should consider regular screening for the condition. Because being male and smoking significantly increase the risk of abdominal aortic aneurysm, men ages 65 to 75 who have ever smoked cigarettes should have a one-time screening for abdominal aortic aneurysm using abdominal ultrasound.||||If you have a family history of abdominal aortic aneurysm, your doctor may recommend an ultrasound exam to screen for the condition.||||There are no specific screening recommendations for women. Ask your doctor if you need to have an ultrasound screening based on your risk factors.	Causes::Most aortic aneurysms occur in the part of your aorta that's in your abdomen. Although the exact cause of abdominal aortic aneurysms is unknown, a number of factors may play a role, including:||Tobacco use. Cigarette smoking and other forms of tobacco use appear to increase your risk of aortic aneurysms. In addition to the damaging effects that smoking causes directly to the arteries, smoking contributes to the buildup of fatty plaques in your arteries (atherosclerosis) and high blood pressure. Smoking can also cause your aneurysm to grow faster by further damaging your aorta.Hardening of the arteries (atherosclerosis). Atherosclerosis occurs when fat and other substances build up on the lining of a blood vessel, increasing your risk of an aneurysm.Infection in the aorta (vasculitis). In rare cases, abdominal aortic aneurysm may be caused by an infection or inflammation that weakens a section of the aortic wall.||Aneurysms can develop anywhere along the aorta, but when they occur in the upper part of the aorta, they are called thoracic aortic aneurysms. More commonly, aneurysms form in the lower part of your aorta and are called abdominal aortic aneurysms. These aneurysms may also be referred to as AAA or triple A.	Risk factors::Abdominal aortic aneurysm risk factors include:||Age. Abdominal aortic aneurysms occur most often in people age 65 and older.Tobacco use. Tobacco use is a strong risk factor for the development of an abdominal aortic aneurysm. The longer you've smoked or chewed tobacco, the greater your risk.Atherosclerosis. Atherosclerosis, the buildup of fat and other substances that can damage the lining of a blood vessel, increases your risk of an aneurysm.Being male. Men develop abdominal aortic aneurysms much more often than women do.Family history. People who have a family history of abdominal aortic aneurysm are at increased risk of having the condition. People who have a family history of aneurysms tend to develop aneurysms at a younger age and are at higher risk of rupture.	Complications::Tears in the wall of the aorta (dissection) are the main complications of abdominal aortic aneurysm. A ruptured aortic aneurysm can lead to life-threatening internal bleeding. In general, the larger the aneurysm, the greater the risk of rupture.||||Signs and symptoms that your aortic aneurysm has burst include:||Sudden, intense and persistent abdominal or back painPain that radiates to your back or legsSweatinessClamminessDizzinessNauseaVomitingLow blood pressureFast pulseLoss of consciousnessShortness of breath||Another complication of aortic aneurysms is the risk of blood clots. Small blood clots can develop in the area of the aortic aneurysm. If a blood clot breaks loose from the inside wall of an aneurysm and blocks a blood vessel elsewhere in your body, it can cause pain or block the blood flow to the legs, toes, kidneys or abdominal organs.	Preparing for your appointment::If you think you may have an abdominal aortic aneurysm, or are worried about your aneurysm risk because of a strong family history, make an appointment with your family doctor. If an aneurysm is found early, your treatment may be easier and more effective.||||Since many abdominal aortic aneurysms are found during a routine physical exam, or while your doctor is looking for another condition, there are no special preparations necessary. If you're being screened for an aortic aneurysm, your doctor will likely ask if anyone in your family has ever had an aortic aneurysm, so have that information ready.||||Because appointments can be brief and there's often a lot of ground to cover, it's a good idea to be prepared for your appointment. Here's some information to help you get ready for your appointment, and what to expect from your doctor.||||What you can do||Be aware of any pre-appointment restrictions. At the time you make the appointment, be sure to ask if there's anything you need to do in advance, such as restrict your diet. For an ultrasound or echocardiogram, for example, you may need to fast for a period of time beforehand.Write down any symptoms you're experiencing, including any that may seem unrelated to an abdominal aortic aneurysm.Write down key personal information, including a family history of heart disease or aneurysms.Make a list of all medications, vitamins or supplements that you're taking.Take a family member or friend along, if possible. Sometimes it can be difficult to remember all the information provided to you during an appointment. Someone who accompanies you may remember something that you missed or forgot.Be prepared to discuss your diet, exercise habits and tobacco use. If you don't already follow a healthy diet or exercise routine, talk to your doctor about any challenges you might face in getting started. Be sure to tell your doctor if you're a current or former smoker.Write down questions to ask your doctor.||Your time with your doctor is limited, so preparing a list of questions will help you make the most of your time together. List your questions from most important to least important in case time runs out. For an abdominal aortic aneurysm, some basic questions to ask your doctor include:||What's the most likely cause of my symptoms?What kinds of tests will I need?What treatments are available, and which do you think would be the best treatment for me?What's an appropriate level of physical activity?How often do I need to be screened for this aneurysm?Should I tell other family members to be screened for an aneurysm?I have other health conditions. How can I best manage these conditions together?Is there a generic alternative to the medicine you're prescribing me?Are there any brochures or other printed material that I can take home with me?What websites do you recommend visiting for more information?||In addition to the questions that you've prepared to ask your doctor, don't hesitate to ask additional questions during your appointment at any time that you don't understand something.||||What to expect from your doctor||Your doctor is likely to ask you a number of questions. Being ready to answer them may reserve time to go over any points you want to spend more time on. Your doctor may ask:||When did you first notice your symptoms?Do your symptoms come and go, or do you always feel them?How severe are your symptoms?Do you have a family history of aneurysms?Have you ever smoked?Does anything seem to improve your symptoms?What, if anything, appears to worsen your symptoms?||What you can do in the meantime||It's never too early to make healthy lifestyle changes, such as quitting smoking, eating healthy foods and becoming more physically active. These are primary lines of defense to keep your blood vessels healthy and prevent an abdominal aortic aneurysm from developing or worsening.||||If you're diagnosed with an abdominal aortic aneurysm, you should ask about the size of your aneurysm, whether your doctor has noticed any changes, and how frequently you should visit your doctor for follow-up appointments.	Tests and diagnosis::Abdominal aortic aneurysms are often found during an examination for another reason. For example, during a routine exam, your doctor may feel a pulsating bulge in your abdomen, though it's unlikely your doctor will be able to hear signs of an aneurysm through a stethoscope. Aortic aneurysms are often found during routine medical tests, such as a chest X-ray or ultrasound of the heart or abdomen, sometimes ordered for a different reason.||||If your doctor suspects that you have an aortic aneurysm, specialized tests can confirm it. These tests might include:||Abdominal ultrasound. This exam can help diagnose an abdominal aortic aneurysm. During this painless exam, you lie on your back on an examination table and a small amount of warm gel is applied to your abdomen. The gel helps eliminate the formation of air pockets between your body and the instrument the technician uses to see your aorta, called a transducer. The technician presses the transducer against your skin over your abdomen, moving from one area to another. The transducer sends images to a computer screen that the technician monitors to check for a potential aneurysm.Computerized tomography (CT) scan. This painless test can provide your doctor with clear images of your aorta. During a CT scan, you lie on a table inside a doughnut-shaped machine called a gantry. Detectors inside the gantry measure the radiation that has passed through your body and converts it into electrical signals. A computer gathers these signals and assigns them a color ranging from black to white, depending on signal intensity. The computer then assembles the images and displays them on a computer monitor.Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). MRI is another painless imaging test. Most MRI machines contain a large magnet shaped like a doughnut or tunnel. You lie on a movable table that slides into the tunnel. The magnetic field aligns atomic particles in some of your cells. When radio waves are broadcast toward these aligned particles, they produce signals that vary according to the type of tissue they are. Your doctor can use the images produced by the signals to see if you have an aneurysm.||Regular screening for people at risk of abdominal aortic aneurysms||The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommends that men ages 65 to 75 who have ever smoked should have a one-time screening for abdominal aortic aneurysm using abdominal ultrasound. People older than age 60 with a family history of abdominal aortic aneurysm or other risk factors should talk with their doctors about whether to have a screening ultrasound.	Treatments and drugs::Here are the general guidelines for treating abdominal aortic aneurysms.||||Small aneurysmIf you have a small abdominal aortic aneurysm — about 1.6 inches, or 4 centimeters (cm), in diameter or smaller — and you have no symptoms, your doctor may suggest a watch-and-wait (observation) approach, rather than surgery. In general, surgery isn't needed for small aneurysms because the risk of surgery likely outweighs the risk of rupture.||||If you choose this approach, your doctor will monitor your aneurysm with periodic ultrasounds, usually every six to 12 months and encourage you to report immediately if you start having abdominal tenderness or back pain — potential signs of a dissection.||||Medium aneurysmA medium aneurysm measures between 1.6 and 2.1 inches (4 and 5.3 cm). It's less clear how the risks of surgery versus waiting stack up in the case of a medium-size abdominal aortic aneurysm. You'll need to discuss the benefits and risks of waiting versus surgery and make a decision with your doctor. If you choose watchful waiting, you'll need to have an ultrasound every six to 12 months to monitor your aneurysm.||||Large, fast-growing or leaking aneurysm. If you have an aneurysm that is large (larger than 2.2 inches, or 5.6 cm) or growing rapidly (grows more than 0.5 cm in six months), you'll probably need surgery. In addition, a leaking, tender or painful aneurysm requires treatment. There are two types of surgery for abdominal aortic aneurysms.||Open-abdominal surgery to repair an abdominal aortic aneurysm involves removing the damaged section of the aorta and replacing it with a synthetic tube (graft), which is sewn into place, through an open-abdominal approach. With this type of surgery, it will likely take you a month or more to fully recover.Endovascular surgery is a less invasive procedure sometimes used to repair an aneurysm. Doctors attach a synthetic graft to the end of a thin tube (catheter) that's inserted through an artery in your leg and threaded up into your aorta. The graft — a woven tube covered by a metal mesh support — is placed at the site of the aneurysm and fastened in place with small hooks or pins. The graft reinforces the weakened section of the aorta to prevent rupture of the aneurysm.||Recovery time for people who have endovascular surgery is shorter than for people who have open-abdominal surgery. However, follow-up appointments are more frequent because endovascular grafts can leak. Follow-up ultrasounds are generally done every six months for the first year, and then once a year after that. Long-term survival rates are similar for both endovascular surgery and open surgery.||||The options for treatment of your aneurysm will depend on a variety of factors, including location of the aneurysm, your age, kidney function and other conditions that may increase your risk of surgery or endovascular repair.	Lifestyle and home remedies::The best approach to prevent an aortic aneurysm is to keep your blood vessels as healthy as possible. That means taking these steps:||Quit smoking or chewing tobacco.Keep your blood pressure under control.Get regular exercise.Reduce cholesterol and fat in your diet.||If you have some risk factors for aortic aneurysm, talk to your doctor. If you are at risk, your doctor may recommend additional measures, including medications to lower your blood pressure and relieve stress on weakened arteries.
Abscess, Bartholin's 	Bartholin's cyst	http://www.mayoclinic.com/health/bartholin-cyst/DS00667	Definition::The Bartholin's (BAHR-toe-linz) glands are located on each side of the vaginal opening. These glands secrete fluid that helps lubricate the vagina. Sometimes the openings of these glands become obstructed, causing fluid to back up into the gland. The result is relatively painless swelling called a Bartholin's cyst. At times, the fluid within the cyst may become infected, resulting in pus surrounded by inflamed tissue (abscess).||||A Bartholin's cyst or abscess is common. Treatment of a Bartholin's cyst depends on the size of the cyst, the pain and whether the cyst is infected. Sometimes home treatment is all you need. In other cases, surgical drainage of the Bartholin's cyst is necessary. If an infection occurs, antibiotics may be helpful to treat the infected Bartholin's cyst.	Symptoms::If the cyst remains small and no infection occurs, you may not notice it. If it grows, you might feel the presence of a lump or mass near your vaginal opening. Although a cyst is usually painless, it can be tender.||||If the cyst becomes infected — a full-blown infection can occur in a matter of days — you may experience these signs and symptoms:||A tender or painful lump near the vaginal openingDiscomfort while walking or sittingPain during intercourseFever||A cyst or abscess typically occurs on only one side of the vaginal opening.||||When to see a doctor ||Call your doctor if you have a painful lump near the opening of your vagina that doesn't improve after two or three days of self-care treatment — for instance, soaking the area in warm water (sitz bath). If the pain is severe, make an appointment with your doctor right away.||||If you find a new lump near your vaginal opening and you're older than 40, call your doctor promptly. Although rare, such a lump may be a sign of a more serious problem, such as cancer.	Causes::Experts believe that the cause of a Bartholin's cyst is a backup of fluid. Fluid may accumulate when the opening of the gland (duct) becomes obstructed, perhaps by the growth of a flap of skin or because of infection.||||A cyst can become infected, forming an abscess. A number of bacteria may cause the infection, including common bacteria, such as Escherichia coli (E. coli), as well as bacteria that cause sexually transmitted infections such as gonorrhea and chlamydia.	Complications::Bartholin cysts are likely to persist. Abscesses may recur and again require treatment.	Preparing for your appointment::Your first appointment will likely be with either your primary care provider or a doctor who specializes in conditions that affect women (gynecologist). Because appointments can be brief, and there's often a lot to cover, it's a good idea to be prepared.||||What you can do||Write down your symptoms, including any that seem unrelated to your condition.Make a list of any medications as well as vitamins or other supplements that you take.Take a notebook or notepad with you to write down information during your visit.Prepare questions to ask your doctor, listing the most important first in case time runs out.||For a Bartholin's cyst, some basic questions to ask include:||What's likely causing my symptoms?What kind of tests might I need?Will the cyst go away on its own, or will I need treatment?How long should I wait after treatment before having sex?What self-care measures might help relieve my symptoms?Will the cyst come back again?Do you have any printed material or brochures I can take home with me? What websites do you recommend?||Don't hesitate to ask questions during your appointment if you don't understand something.||||What to expect from your doctor ||Some potential questions your doctor might ask include:||How long have you been experiencing symptoms?How severe are your symptoms?Do you experience pain during sex?Do you experience pain during normal daily activities?Does anything improve your symptoms?Does anything make your symptoms worse?	Tests and diagnosis::To diagnose a Bartholin's cyst, your doctor may:||Ask questions about your medical historyPerform a pelvic examTake a sample of secretions from your vagina or cervix to test for a sexually transmitted infectionRecommend a test of the mass (biopsy) to check for cancerous cells if you're postmenopausal or over 40||If cancer is a concern, your doctor may refer you to a gynecologist who specializes in cancers of the female reproductive system.	Treatments and drugs::Often a Bartholin's cyst requires no treatment — especially if the cyst causes no signs or symptoms. When needed, treatment depends on the size of the cyst, your discomfort level and whether it's infected, which can result in an abscess.||||Treatment options your doctor may recommend include:||Sitz baths. Soaking in a tub filled with a few inches of warm water (sitz bath) several times a day for three or four days may help a small, infected cyst to rupture and drain on its own.Surgical drainage. You may need surgery to drain a cyst that's infected or very large. Drainage of a cyst can be done using local anesthesia or sedation. For the procedure, your doctor makes a small incision in the cyst, allows it to drain and then places a small rubber tube (catheter) in the incision. The catheter stays in place for up to six weeks to keep the opening from closing and to allow complete drainage.Antibiotics. Your doctor may prescribe an antibiotic if your cyst is infected or if testing reveals that you have a sexually transmitted infection. But if the abscess is drained properly, you may not need antibiotics.Marsupialization. If cysts recur or bother you, a marsupialization (mahr-soo-pee-uhl-ih-ZAY-shun) procedure may help. Your doctor places stitches on each side of a drainage incision to create a permanent opening less than 1/4-inch (about 6 millimeters) long. An inserted catheter promotes draining for a few days after the procedure and helps prevent recurrence. Depending on how complex your cyst is, you may need to have the procedure done in a hospital operating room under general anesthesia. If you have an active infection, your doctor will likely drain the abscess first, treat the infection with a course of antibiotics and then perform the marsupialization.||Rarely for persistent cysts that aren't effectively treated by the above procedures, your doctor may recommend surgery to remove the Bartholin's gland. Surgical removal is usually done in a hospital under general anesthesia.	Lifestyle and home remedies::Daily soaking in warm water, several times a day, may be adequate to resolve an infected Bartholin's cyst or abscess.||||After surgical procedures to treat an infected cyst or abscess, soaking in warm water is particularly important. Sitz baths help to keep the area clean, ease discomfort and promote effective drainage of the cyst. Pain relievers also may be helpful. If you have a catheter in place, after your doctor's approval, you may resume your normal activities, including sex, depending on your level of comfort.	Prevention::There's no way to prevent a Bartholin's cyst. However, practicing safe sex — in particular, using a condom — and maintaining good hygiene habits may help to prevent infection of a cyst and the formation of an abscess.
Absence seizure		http://www.mayoclinic.com/health/petit-mal-seizure/DS00216	Definition::Absence seizure — also known as petit mal — involves a brief, sudden lapse of consciousness. Absence seizures are more common in children than adults. Someone having an absence seizure may look like he or she is staring into space for a few seconds.||||Compared with other types of epileptic seizures, absence seizures appear mild. But they can be dangerous. Children with a history of absence seizure must be supervised carefully while swimming or bathing because of the danger of drowning. Teens and adults may be restricted from driving and other potentially hazardous activities.||||Absence seizures usually can be controlled with anti-seizure medications. Some children who have absence seizures also have grand mal seizures. Many children outgrow absence seizures in their teen years.	Symptoms::Signs of absence seizures include:||Vacant stareAbsence of motion without fallingLip smackingEyelid fluttersChewing motionsHand movementsSmall movements of both arms||Absence seizures last only a few seconds. Full recovery is almost instantaneous. Afterward, there's no confusion, but also no memory of the incident. Some people experience dozens of these episodes each day, which interferes with their performance at school or work.||||Children who are walking or doing other complex tasks during a seizure probably won't fall, though they'll be unaware.||||Absence seizures in a child may occur for some time before an adult notices them, because they're so brief. A noticeable decline in a child's learning ability may be the first sign of this disorder. Teachers may comment about a child's inability to pay attention.||||When to see a doctorContact your doctor:||The first time you notice a seizureIf you have a new type of seizure||Seek immediate medical attention:||If you observe prolonged automatic behaviors — activities such as eating or moving without awareness — or prolonged confusion, possible symptoms of a condition called absence status epilepticusAfter any seizure lasting more than five minutes	Causes::Often, no underlying cause can be found for absence seizures. Many children appear to have a genetic predisposition to them. Sometimes hyperventilation can trigger an absence seizure.||||In general, seizures are caused by abnormal nerve cell (neuron) activity in the brain. The brain's nerve cells normally communicate with each other by sending electrical and chemical signals across the synapses that connect the cells. In people who have seizures, the brain's usual electrical activity is altered. During an absence seizure, these electrical signals repeat themselves over and over in a three-second pattern.||||People who have seizures may also have altered levels of neurotransmitters, which are the chemical messengers that help the nerve cells communicate with one another.||||This type of seizure may be more prevalent in children. Many children gradually outgrow absence seizures over months to years.	Complications::While most children outgrow absence seizures, some people may find that they are:||Experiencing these types of seizures throughout lifeEventually experiencing full convulsions (grand mal or generalized tonic-clonic seizures)||Other complications can include:||Learning difficultiesAbsence status epilepticus, a condition in which seizure behavior lasts longer than a few minutes	Preparing for your appointment::You're likely to start by seeing your family doctor or a general practitioner. However, you or your child will probably be referred to a doctor who specializes in nervous system disorders (neurologist).||||It's good to prepare for your appointment. Here's some information to help you get ready for your appointment, and to know what to expect from your doctor.||||What you can do||Write down any symptoms you or your child is experiencing, including any that may seem unrelated to the reason for which you scheduled the appointment.Make a list of all medications, vitamins or supplements you or your child takes.Write down questions to ask the doctor.||Preparing a list of questions will help you make the most of your time with your doctor. For absence seizure, some basic questions to ask your doctor include:||What's the most likely cause of these symptoms?Are there other possible causes?What kinds of tests are needed? Do these tests require special preparation?Is this condition temporary or long lasting?What treatments are available and which do you recommend?What types of side effects can I expect from treatment?Are there any alternatives to the primary approach you're suggesting?Are there any activity restrictions?Is there a generic alternative to the medicine you're prescribing?Are there any brochures or other printed material that I can take home with me? What websites do you recommend?Can my child also develop the grand mal type of seizure?How long will my child need to take medication?Can my child participate in physical activities, such as soccer, football and swimming?||Don't hesitate to ask any other questions that occur to you.||||What to expect from your doctorYour doctor is likely to ask you a number of questions, such as:||When did you or your child begin experiencing symptoms?How often have the symptoms occurred?Can you describe a typical seizure?How long do the seizures last?Are you or your child aware of what happened?	Tests and diagnosis::Some children experience episodes that resemble absence seizures, but aren't seizures. Such episodes usually can be interrupted by calling the child's name or by touching his or her shoulder. True absence seizures, on the other hand, can't be interrupted by voice or touch. Absence seizures may occur in the middle of a child's conversation or physical activity.||||Your doctor will ask for a detailed description of the seizures. Blood tests can help rule out other potential causes of seizures, such as a chemical imbalance or the presence of toxic substances. Other tests may include:||Electroencephalography (EEG). This painless procedure measures waves of electrical activity in the brain. Brain waves are transmitted to the EEG machine via small electrodes attached to the scalp with paste or an elastic cap. Your child may be asked to hyperventilate or look at flickering lights, an attempt to provoke a seizure. During a seizure, the pattern on the EEG is different from the normal pattern.Brain scans. Tests such as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) can produce detailed images of the brain, which can help rule out other types of problems, such as a stroke or a brain tumor. This test is not painful, but your child will need to hold still for long periods of time. Talk with your doctor about the possible use of sedation, especially for young children.	Treatments and drugs::Many medications can effectively eliminate absence seizures or reduce the number. Finding the right medication and dosage can be challenging, requiring a period of trial and error. Taking the medications on a regular schedule is crucial to maintaining proper drug levels in the blood.||||Often, the first drug prescribed for absence seizures is ethosuximide (Zarontin). However, other medications, such as valproic acid (Depakene, Stavzor) and lamotrigine (Lamictal), also are effective at controlling seizures. Your doctor likely will start at the lowest dose possible and increase the dosage as needed to control the seizures. Most children can discontinue anti-seizure medications, under a doctor's supervision, after they've been seizure-free for two years.||||The drug Lamictal has been linked to an increased risk of aseptic meningitis, an inflammation of the protective membranes that cover the brain and spinal cord that's similar to bacterial meningitis.||||Women who need treatment for absence seizures are advised against using valproic acid while trying to conceive or during pregnancy, because the drug has been associated with higher risk of birth defects in babies. Women who can't achieve seizure control on any other medication need to discuss potential risks with their doctors.	Lifestyle and home remedies::A person with absence seizures may elect to wear a medical bracelet for identification for emergency medical reasons. The bracelet should state whom to contact in an emergency and what medications you use. It's also a good idea to let teachers, coaches and child care workers know about the seizures and tell them what to do in an emergency.	Coping and support::Even after they've been controlled with medication, seizures may affect areas of your child's life, such as attention span and learning. Your child will require close supervision for activities such as swimming. He or she will have to be seizure-free for reasonable lengths of time (intervals vary from state to state) before being able to drive.||||You may find it helpful to talk with other people who are in the same situation you are. Besides offering support, they also may have advice or tips for coping that you haven't considered. The Epilepsy Foundation has a network of support groups, as well as online forums for teens and adults who have seizures and parents of children who have seizures. You can call The Epilepsy Foundation at 800-332-1000 or visit its website. Also, your doctor may know of support groups in your area.
Acanthosis nigricans		http://www.mayoclinic.com/health/acanthosis-nigricans/DS00653	Definition::Acanthosis nigricans (ak-an-THOE-sis NIE-grih-kuns) is a skin condition characterized by areas of dark, velvety discoloration in body folds and creases. The affected skin can become thickened and may smell bad. Most often, acanthosis nigricans affects your armpits, groin and neck.||||These skin changes typically occur in people who are obese or have diabetes. Children who develop the condition are at higher risk of developing type 2 diabetes. More rarely, acanthosis nigricans can be a warning sign of a cancerous tumor in an internal organ, such as the stomach or liver.||||Acanthosis nigricans is most common in Native Americans, blacks and Hispanics. There's no specific treatment for acanthosis nigricans. Treatment of underlying conditions may restore some of the normal color and texture to affected areas of skin.	Symptoms::Skin changes are the only signs of acanthosis nigricans. You'll notice dark, thickened, velvety skin in body folds and creases — typically in your armpits, groin and neck. The skin changes appear slowly, sometimes over months or years. The affected skin may also smell bad or itch.||||When to see a doctorConsult your doctor if you notice changes in your skin — especially if the changes appear suddenly. You may have an underlying condition that needs treatment.	Causes::Acanthosis nigricans has been associated with:||Insulin resistance. Most people who have acanthosis nigricans have also become resistant to insulin, a hormone secreted by the pancreas that allows your body to process sugar. Insulin resistance is what eventually causes type 2 diabetes.Obesity. Most people who develop acanthosis nigricans are overweight or obese, which is a strong risk factor for developing insulin resistance.Hormonal disorders. Acanthosis nigricans often occurs in people who have disorders such as ovarian cysts, underactive thyroids or problems with the adrenal glands.Certain drugs. Medications such as oral contraceptives and corticosteroids, such as prednisone, may cause acanthosis nigricans — as can high doses of niacin.Cancer. Acanthosis nigricans also sometimes occurs when a cancerous tumor begins growing in an internal organ, such as the stomach, colon or liver.	Risk factors::Acanthosis nigricans risk factors include:||Obesity. The heavier you are, the higher your risk of acanthosis nigricans.Race. Acanthosis nigricans is most common in American Indians, Hispanics and blacks.Genetics. Some types of acanthosis nigricans appear to be hereditary.	Complications::People who have acanthosis nigricans are much more likely to develop type 2 diabetes. They also should be thoroughly checked for the types of cancers that have been linked to the disorder.	Preparing for your appointment::You're likely to start by seeing your family doctor. He or she may refer you to a doctor who specializes in skin disorders (dermatologist) or hormone problems (endocrinologist). Because appointments can be brief and there's often a lot of ground to cover, it's a good idea to be well prepared for your appointment.||||What you can doBefore your appointment, you may want to write a list that answers some of the following questions:||Has anyone in your family ever had this problem?Does diabetes run in your family?Have you ever had problems with your ovaries, adrenal glands or thyroid?What medications and supplements do you take on a regular basis?Have you ever had to take high doses of prednisone for more than a week?||What to expect from your doctorYour doctor is likely to ask you a number of questions. Being ready to answer them may reserve time to go over any points you want to spend more time on. Your doctor may ask:||When did your symptoms begin?Have they gotten worse?What areas of your body are affected?Have you ever had cancer?	Tests and diagnosis::Acanthosis nigricans is typically detected during a skin exam. Rarely, a small skin sample is removed (biopsied) for examination in a lab. If the cause of acanthosis nigricans is unclear, your doctor may recommend blood tests, X-rays or other tests to look for possible underlying causes.	Treatments and drugs::In many situations, treating the underlying problem can help fade the discoloration. Examples may include:||Lose weight. If your acanthosis nigricans is caused by obesity, losing weight may help.Take medications. Symptoms may be relieved by treatment for underlying problems with your ovaries, adrenal glands or thyroid.Surgery. If acanthosis nigricans was triggered by a cancerous tumor, surgically removing the tumor often clears up the skin discoloration.||If you are concerned about the appearance of your skin or if the lesions become uncomfortable or start to smell bad, your doctor may suggest:||Prescription creams to lighten the affected areasAntibacterial soaps or a topical antibiotic to reduce odorOral acne medicationsLaser therapy to reduce the skin's thickness
Achilles tendinitis		http://www.mayoclinic.com/health/achilles-tendinitis/DS00737	Definition::Achilles tendinitis is an overuse injury of the Achilles (uh-KIL-eez) tendon, the band of tissue that connects calf muscles at the back of the lower leg to your heel bone.||||Achilles tendinitis most commonly occurs in runners who have suddenly increased the intensity or duration of their runs. It's also common in middle-aged people who play sports, such as tennis or basketball, only on the weekends.||||Most cases of Achilles tendinitis can be treated with relatively simple, at-home care under your doctor's supervision. Self-care strategies are usually necessary to prevent recurring episodes. More-serious cases of Achilles tendinitis can lead to tendon tears (ruptures) that may require surgical repair.	Symptoms::The pain associated with Achilles tendinitis typically begins as a mild ache in the back of the leg or above the heel after running or other sports activity. Episodes of more severe pain may occur after prolonged running, stair climbing or sprinting.||||You might also experience tenderness or stiffness, especially in the morning, which usually improves with mild activity.||||When to see a doctorIf you experience persistent pain around the Achilles tendon, call your doctor. Seek immediate medical attention if the pain or disability is severe. You may have a torn (ruptured) Achilles tendon.	Causes::Achilles tendinitis is caused by repetitive or intense strain on the Achilles tendon, the band of tissue that connects your calf muscles to your heel bone. This tendon is used when you walk, run, jump or push up on your toes.||||The structure of the Achilles tendon weakens with age, which can make it more susceptible to injury — particularly in people who may participate in sports only on the weekends or who have suddenly increased the intensity of their running programs.	Risk factors::A number of factors may increase your risk of Achilles tendinitis, including:||Your sex and age. Achilles tendinitis occurs most commonly in middle-aged men.Physical problems. A naturally flat arch in your foot can put more strain on the Achilles tendon. Obesity and tight calf muscles also can increase tendon strain.Training choices. Running in worn-out shoes can increase your risk of Achilles tendinitis. Tendon pain occurs more frequently in cold weather than in warm weather, and running on hilly terrain also can predispose you to Achilles injury.Medical conditions. People who have diabetes or high blood pressure are at higher risk of developing Achilles tendinitis.Medications. Certain types of antibiotics, called fluoroquinolones, have been associated with higher rates of Achilles tendinitis.	Complications::Achilles tendinitis can weaken the tendon, making it more vulnerable to a tear (rupture) — a painful injury that usually requires surgical repair.	Preparing for your appointment::You'll likely first bring your symptoms to the attention of your family doctor. He or she might refer you to a doctor specializing in sports medicine or physical and rehabilitative medicine (physiatrist). If your Achilles tendon has ruptured, you may need to see an orthopedic surgeon.||||What you can doBefore your appointment, you may want to write a list of answers to the following questions:||Did the pain begin suddenly or gradually?Are symptoms worse at certain times of day or after certain activities?What types of shoes do you wear during exercise?What medications and supplements do you take regularly?||What to expect from your doctorBe prepared to answer the following questions regarding your symptoms and factors that may be contributing to your condition:||Where exactly does it hurt?Does the pain lessen with rest?What is your normal exercise routine?Have you recently made changes to your exercise routine, or have you recently started participating in a new sport?What have you done for pain relief?	Tests and diagnosis::During the physical exam, your doctor will gently press on the affected area to determine the location of pain, tenderness or swelling. He or she will also evaluate the flexibility, alignment, range of motion and reflexes of your foot and ankle.||||Imaging testsYour doctor may order one or more of the following tests to assess your condition:||X-rays. While X-rays can't visualize soft tissues such as tendons, they may help rule out other conditions that can cause similar symptoms.Ultrasound. This device uses sound waves to visualize soft tissues like tendons. Ultrasound can also produce real-time images of the Achilles tendon in motion.Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Using radio waves and a very strong magnet, MRI machines can produce very detailed images of the Achilles tendon.	Treatments and drugs::Tendinitis usually responds well to self-care measures. But if your signs and symptoms are severe or persistent, your doctor might suggest other treatment options.||||MedicationsIf over-the-counter pain medications — such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) or naproxen (Aleve) — aren't enough, your doctor might prescribe stronger medications to reduce inflammation and relieve pain.||||Physical therapyA physical therapist might suggest some of the following treatment options:||Exercises. Therapists often prescribe specific stretching and strengthening exercises to promote healing and strengthening of the Achilles tendon and its supporting structures.Orthotic devices. A shoe insert or wedge that slightly elevates your heel can relieve strain on the tendon and provide a cushion that lessens the amount of force exerted on your Achilles tendon.||SurgeryIf several months of more-conservative treatments don't work or if the tendon has torn, your doctor may suggest surgery to repair your Achilles tendon.	Lifestyle and home remedies::Self-care strategies include the following steps, often known by the acronym R.I.C.E.:||Rest. You may need to avoid exercise for several days or switch to an activity that doesn't strain the Achilles tendon, such as swimming. In severe cases, you may need to wear a walking boot and use crutches.Ice. To decrease pain or swelling, apply an ice pack to the tendon for about 15 minutes after exercising or when you experience pain.Compression. Wraps or compressive elastic bandages can help reduce swelling and reduce movement of the tendon.Elevation. Raise the affected foot above the level of your heart to reduce swelling. Sleep with your affected foot elevated at night.	Prevention::While it may not be possible to prevent Achilles tendinitis, you can take measures to reduce your risk:||Increase your activity level gradually. If you're just beginning an exercise regimen, start slowly and gradually increase the duration and intensity of the training.Take it easy. Avoid activities that place excessive stress on your tendons, such as hill running. If you participate in a strenuous activity, warm up first by exercising at a slower pace. If you notice pain during a particular exercise, stop and rest.Choose your shoes carefully. The shoes you wear while exercising should provide adequate cushioning for your heel and should have a firm arch support to help reduce the tension in the Achilles tendon. Replace your worn-out shoes. If your shoes are in good condition but don't support your feet, try arch supports in both shoes.Stretch daily. Take the time to stretch your calf muscles and Achilles tendon in the morning, before exercise and after exercise to maintain flexibility. This is especially important to avoid a recurrence of Achilles tendinitis.Strengthen your calf muscles. Strong calf muscles enable the calf and Achilles tendon to better handle the stresses they encounter with activity and exercise.Cross-train. Alternate high-impact activities, such as running and jumping, with low-impact activities, such as cycling and swimming.
Achilles tendon rupture		http://www.mayoclinic.com/health/achilles-tendon-rupture/DS00160	Definition::Achilles (uh-KILL-eez) tendon rupture is an injury that affects the back of your lower leg. It most commonly occurs in people playing recreational sports.||||The Achilles tendon is a strong fibrous cord that connects the muscles in the back of your calf to your heel bone. If you overstretch your Achilles tendon, it can tear (rupture). The tendon can rupture completely or just partially.||||If you have an Achilles tendon rupture, you might feel a pop or snap, followed by an immediate sharp pain in the back of your ankle and lower leg that usually affects your ability to walk properly. Surgery is often the best treatment option to repair an Achilles tendon rupture. For many people, however, nonsurgical treatment works just as well.	Symptoms::Although it's possible to have no signs or symptoms with an Achilles tendon rupture, most people experience:||Pain, possibly severe, and swelling near your heelAn inability to bend your foot downward or "push off" the injured leg when you walkAn inability to stand up on your toes on the injured legA popping or snapping sound when the injury occurs||When to see your doctorSeek medical advice immediately if you feel a pop or snap in your heel, especially if you can't walk properly afterward.	Causes::Your Achilles tendon helps you point your foot downward, rise on your toes and push off your foot as you walk. You rely on it virtually every time you move your foot.||||Rupture usually occurs in the section of the tendon located within 2.5 inches (6 centimeters) of the point where it attaches to the heel bone. This section may be predisposed to rupture because it gets less blood flow, which may impair its ability to heal.||||Ruptures often are caused by a sudden increase in the amount of stress on your Achilles tendon. Common examples include:||Increasing the intensity of sports participationFalling from a heightStepping into a hole	Risk factors::Factors that may increase your risk of Achilles tendon rupture include:||Age. The peak age for Achilles tendon rupture is 30 to 40.Your sex. Achilles tendon rupture is up to five times more likely to occur in men than in women.Playing recreational sports. Achilles tendon injuries occur more often in sports that involve running, jumping and sudden starts and stops — such as soccer, basketball and tennis.Steroid injections. Doctors sometimes inject steroids into an ankle joint to reduce pain and inflammation. However, this medication can weaken nearby tendons and has been associated with Achilles tendon ruptures.Certain antibiotics. Fluoroquinolone antibiotics, such as ciprofloxacin (Cipro) or levofloxacin (Levaquin), increase the risk of Achilles tendon rupture.	Preparing for your appointment::Because an Achilles tendon rupture can impair your ability to walk, it's common to seek immediate treatment at a hospital's emergency department. You may also need to consult with doctors specializing in sports medicine or orthopedic surgery.||||What you can doYou may want to write a list that includes:||Detailed descriptions of the symptoms and the precipitating eventInformation about past medical problemsAll the medications and dietary supplements you takeQuestions you want to ask the doctor||What to expect from your doctorThe doctor may ask you some of the following questions:||How exactly did this injury occur?Did you feel or hear a popping or snapping sound when it happened?Can you stand on tiptoe with that foot?	Tests and diagnosis::During the physical exam, your doctor will inspect your lower leg for tenderness and swelling. In many cases, doctors can feel a gap in your tendon if a complete rupture has occurred.||||The doctor may also ask you to kneel on a chair or lie on your stomach with your feet hanging over the end of the exam table. He or she may then squeeze your calf muscle to see if your foot will automatically flex. If it doesn't, you probably have ruptured your Achilles tendon.||||If there's a question about the extent of your Achilles tendon injury — whether it's completely or only partially ruptured — your doctor may order a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan. This painless procedure uses radio waves and a strong magnetic field to create a computerized image of the tissues of your body.	Treatments and drugs::The best treatment for a ruptured Achilles tendon often depends on your age, activity level and the severity of your injury. In general, younger and more active people often choose surgery to repair a completely ruptured Achilles tendon while older people are more likely to opt for nonsurgical treatment. Recent studies, however, have shown fairly equal effectiveness of both operative and nonoperative management.||||Nonsurgical treatmentThis approach typically involves wearing a cast or walking boot with wedges to elevate your heel; this allows the ends of your torn tendon to heal. This method can be effective, and it avoids the risks, such as infection, associated with surgery. However, the likelihood of re-rupture may be higher with a nonsurgical approach, and recovery can take longer. If re-rupture occurs, surgical repair may be more difficult.||||SurgerySurgery is a common treatment for a complete rupture of the Achilles tendon. The procedure generally involves making an incision in the back of your lower leg and stitching the torn tendon together. Depending on the condition of the torn tissue, the repair may be reinforced with other tendons. Surgical complications can include infection and nerve damage. Infection rates are reduced in surgeries that employ smaller incisions.||||RehabilitationAfter treatment, whether surgical or nonsurgical, you'll go through a rehabilitation program involving physical therapy exercises to strengthen your leg muscles and Achilles tendon. Most people return to their former level of activity within four to six months.	Prevention::To reduce your chance of developing Achilles tendon problems, follow these tips:||Stretch and strengthen calf muscles. Stretch your calf to the point at which you feel a noticeable pull, but not pain. Don't bounce during a stretch. Calf-strengthening exercises can also help the muscle and tendon absorb more force and prevent injury.Vary your exercises. Alternate high-impact sports, such as running, with low-impact sports, such as walking, biking or swimming. Avoid activities that place excessive stress on your Achilles tendons, such as hill-running and jumping activities.Choose running surfaces carefully. Avoid or limit running on hard or slippery surfaces. Dress properly for cold-weather training and wear well-fitting athletic shoes with proper cushioning in the heels.Increase training intensity slowly. Achilles tendon injuries commonly occur after a person abruptly increases his or her training intensity. Increase the distance, duration and frequency of your training by no more than 10 percent each week.